Freeman v0.5(1) 10.09.2010
by Matt Mower <self@mattmower.com>

Freeman is a tool for users of Native Instruments Reaktor on Mac OSX (10.6.4) that offers a new way to insert modules into structure windows. The default Reaktor approach is to use a right-click context menu and navigate to find the module you want. Using Freeman you get a window with smart type-as-you-go search to find & insert the module you want.

To use Freeman copy Freeman.app to your /Applications folder. Then double-click to run it.

Freeman will appear in your menubar to show you it is running but does not display an application window of it's own. You will notice the icon is white on blue.

Now switch to Reaktor (Freeman was tested with v5.5 but should also work with v5.1.5) and you will notice the Freeman icon switches to yellow on blue. This lets you know that Freeman is waiting for your input.

To use Freeman Option-Click on your structure window where you want a new module to appear. The Freeman browser will appear with a search box and a menu of results. Initially both will be empty.

Start typing the name of a module you want, bearing in mind Freeman has a smart 'abbreviation' search. Let's say you want the "Audio Voice Combiner" from Built-In's/Auxilliary. You could type `audio voice combiner` but it would be quicker to type `avc`. In fact, it's enough to type `av` since this is a unique enough combination to identify the module.

Notice that the menu of search results updates while you are typing and, automatically, selects the first (best matching) result. You can see this by the gray background of the first result. To insert this module into your structure simply press the `Return` key.

Let's say you want the "Snap Value" module. Type `sn` and you will see that "Snapshot" is selected with "Snap Value" one further down. Simply press the down arrow to select it. You don't need to switch focus from the search field to do this, just press down and, when you have selected the right module, hit return to insert it.

If you find it more convenient you can also browse directly in the menu and hit return to insert a module.

Notes
=====

Freeman 0.5 is for Mac OS X 10.6 ("Snow Leopard") only and will not work on previous releases. Additionally it has only been tested on OSX 10.6.4 although it may work on earlier releases of 10.6.

Freeman 0.5 only supports the built-in modules at primary level. Invoking it on a Core structure will have unpredictable (but not disastrous) results. Invoking it on a panel window may potentially be destructive so this should be avoided.

At this point, please report any bugs and/or feature requests to me: self@mattmower.com


